Rewrite tutorials in Markdown (#48592)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/tutorials/kubernetes-basics/create-cluster/cluster-intro.md

---
title: Using Minikube to Create a Cluster

> weight: 10

Author: Done. Thanks for checking!

---
title: Using Minikube to Create a Cluster
weight: 10
---

## {{% heading "objectives" %}}

* Learn what a Kubernetes cluster is.
* Learn what Minikube is.
* Start a Kubernetes cluster on your computer.

## Kubernetes Clusters

> <div class="col-md-8">
>   <div class="content__box content__box_fill">
>     <p><i>Kubernetes is a production-grade, open-source platform that orchestrates
>       the placement (scheduling) and execution of application containers
>       within and across computer clusters.</i></p>
>   </div>
> </div>

Reviewer: I would either use this:

```suggestion
{{% alert title="What is Kubernetes" color="primary" %}}
      Kubernetes is a production-grade, open-source platform that orchestrates
      the placement (scheduling) and execution of application containers
      within and across computer clusters.
{{% /alert %}}
```
_or_ make a similar but more custom shortcode

_or_ a plain paragraph with a custom class (and some associated CSS).

Author: I've used the `{{% alert %}}` suggestion.

 
**Kubernetes coordinates a highly available cluster of computers that are connected
to work as a single unit.** The abstractions in Kubernetes allow you to deploy
containerized applications to a cluster without tying them specifically to individual
machines. To make use of this new model of deployment, applications need to be packaged
in a way that decouples them from individual hosts: they need to be containerized.
Containerized applications are more flexible and available than in past deployment models,
where applications were installed directly onto specific machines as packages deeply
integrated into the host. **Kubernetes automates the distribution and scheduling of
application containers across a cluster in a more efficient way.** Kubernetes is an
open-source platform and is production-ready.

A Kubernetes cluster consists of two types of resources:

* The **Control Plane** coordinates the cluster
* **Nodes** are the workers that run applications

### Cluster Diagram

> {{< figure src="../../public/images/module_01_cluster.svg" class="diagram-medium" >}}

Reviewer: Use site relative links (avoid starting with `../`)

Author: done

**The Control Plane is responsible for managing the cluster.** The Control Plane
coordinates all activities in your cluster, such as scheduling applications, maintaining
applications' desired state, scaling applications, and rolling out new updates.

<div class="col-md-8">
  <div style="background-color: #eaf7ff; border-left: 5px solid #3771e3; padding: 15px; margin: 20px 0;">
    <p><i>Control Planes manage the cluster and the nodes that are used to host the running applications.</i></p>
  </div>

> </div>

Reviewer: Is it feasible to use a Markdown paragraph with a custom class (and some associated CSS)?

Author: I've used the `{{% alert %}}` suggestion.
